MAN (Beginning to write) Fade-in. A simple-minded but brawny young man sits at a cheap desk in a dingy Greenwich Village apartment, typing with two fingers on a rickety portable. He is an attractive oaf, your usual Hollywood lap-dog, with twin spotlights of dedication in his eyes. He stubs out a cigarette and with castrated passion reads what he has written - leaving it in the typewriter - one of the modern novels of nothingness and despair and wasted lives.

BOY Without moving, without real interest, the aging man read what he had written. So it had come to this - he was reduced to writing a slick, shallow movie with unreal, cliche-ridden characters living in a candy-coated Technicolored youth, instead of the great novels burning to be written in his breast.

MAN He sighs unconsciously - he does everything unconsciously - and returns to his task. In a ridiculously short time he leans forward and reads a new paragraph - twining his fingers charmingly in his hair.

BOY His only gesture of protest against his grimy, cigar-smoking producer was to write snide, weak, petty comments about his absurd characters into the meager two pages a day he was able to write.

MAN He pats his own thick pile of manuscripts with obvious self-satisfaction and reads on.

BOY Slowly, tremblingly, against his once-powerful will, his fine-boned hand reached reluctantly for the bottle of whiskey standing under his chair like a fire hydrant to drown the devastating sting of self-hatred. But the hand pulled back. He squared his padded silk shoulders and looked again at the page - again at the bottle. He laughed derisively.

MAN Quietly, without the snotty little narcissist even noticing it, the door opens and the usual enchanting product of cross-breeding between Ursula Andress and Ann-Margret enters, carrying, of course, the usual sack of groceries. She smiles at the young genius' back and tiptoes over to him. She places a hand over his eyes.

BOY Carla! Darling! Just a minute - let me finish this bit and I'll show it to you.

MAN She beams approvingly as she has seen so many writers' sweethearts do in these movies. He types away, speaking as he does. Can't even type without moving his lips.

BOY A brightly-dressed woman entered the room, her once lovely face tense, and stood watching him, a suitcase hanging from her hand like - like an overripe fruit.

MAN The girl reads over his shoulder.

GIRL  Oh, darling, that's beautiful. That verges on poetry.

BOY I've got lots more to show you.

GIRL Don't let me interrupt. I'll start dinner.

BOY Carla, I can't keep letting you -

GIRL You what?

BOY Darling. I don't know what I'd ever do without you.

GIRL And you're never gonna find out.

MAN She blows a kiss and totes her groceries to the kitchen. He returns to work, renewed.

WOMAN Fred -

BOY The syllable shattered his already weakened concentration.

MAN What do you want, Sophie?

BOY She stood - the forbidding, foreboding oracle of a long-dreaded disaster that was merely an annoyance in reality, so long had it been withstood, and so often, in fearful fantasy.

MAN You're interrupting my work, Sophie. (Writes) He pauses over a knotty problem, and then, with the inspiration born of the love of a faithful, devoted, and understanding woman, writes:

BOY He began, in a daze, to write a love scene between an idealized and yet satirized version of his younger self and a beautiful, devoted and understanding girl, who believed him, loved him, and helped him, even though he knew the unreality of the situation would certainly cost him his job. Heartlessly he showed the page to the shaken woman.

MAN The girl re-enters, you see, dressed in a nightie for eating, and lifts his hands from the keys. They kiss fervently, although he reaches out and continues to type with his excess steam.

WOMAN Fred, that's not funny. Listen to me, Fred.

MAN (Writing) He disengages himself and she wraps her arms around his neck, reading aloud as he types.

GIRL She turned contemptuously away from the hideous spectacle of genius compromised, and left without a word. Without a word? A woman would say something.

MAN She is delighted as he accepts her advice.

GIRL Ooooo. She returned and forced herself to speak.

WOMAN I'm leaving, Fred. You'll have no excuse now for what you're doing to yourself. So please - please, darling - stop.

GIRL And she was gone - but he hardly noticed, for his eye, all the time he had continued writing automatically with the skill born of genius, had been on the bottle underneath his desk.

MAN He - he discusses some banal, unbelievable idea with her. The actor can improvise it.

BOY And here, you see, I thought I'd have him get up and go to the window to watch her drive away. Then he looks down, contemplating suicide - and then he turns and looks down at the bottle instead - and then back and forth between the window and the bottle, as if realizing that they're really the same thing, do you see? Two forms of self-destruction.

GIRL Darling, that borders on genius!

BOY Then he returns to his writing, to lose himself instead in the very banal (Mispronounced "bay-na!") unbelievable dream world that he pretends to scorn.

MAN SHE:

GIRL Oh, it's fabulous. Sometimes I'm afraid to come near you- afraid I'll distract you.

MAN HE:

BOY Just a line or two more -

MAN SHE:

GIRL Hurry, darling, hurry!

MAN She writhes in impatience, he types in a frenzy. (MAN reaches for bottle with one hand while both MAN and BOY continue to write.)

GIRL ... while continuing to write with the other! It did not matter now - death, drink or dishonor - one drug was like the other.

MAN They kiss - fervently.

GIRL Angel, is that . . . ?

BOY Yes! It's finished!

GIRL Oh, darling. It's great. It sings. It's a searing indictment. It'll make you famous.

MAN HE:

BOY No. It'll make us famous.

MAN And they live fervently ever after. Fade-out.
